Read this [Open Bible Story
(OBS)](https://door43.org/u/unfoldingWord/en_obs/master/35.html) many
times. You should feel very confident to tell this story in your own
words to someone else. You will be asked to identify the metaphors in
the next activity. 

# OBS 35 The Story of the Compassionate Father

![](/courses/JUSTINTIMEMODULEMETAPHORS/document/images/1-OBS-35.png){.img-responsive
width="1266" height="710"}

One day, Jesus was teaching many people who had gathered to hear him.
These people were tax collectors and also other people who did not try
to obey the Law of Moses.

![](/courses/JUSTINTIMEMODULEMETAPHORS/document/images/2-OBS-35.png){.img-responsive
width="1270" height="715"}

Some religious leaders saw Jesus talking to these people as friends. So
they began to tell each other that he was doing wrong. Jesus heard them
talk, so he told them this story.

![](/courses/JUSTINTIMEMODULEMETAPHORS/document/images/3-OBS-35.png){.img-responsive
width="1280" height="739"}

"There was a man who had two sons. The younger son told his father,
'Father, I want my inheritance now!' So the father divided his property
between his two sons."

![](/courses/JUSTINTIMEMODULEMETAPHORS/document/images/4-OBS-35.png){.img-responsive
width="1279" height="736"}

"Soon the younger son gathered all that he had and went far away and
wasted his money in sinful living."

![](/courses/JUSTINTIMEMODULEMETAPHORS/document/images/5-OBS-35.png){.img-responsive
width="1278" height="713"}

"After that, a severe famine occurred in the land where the younger son
was, and he had no money to buy food. So he took the only job he could
find, feeding pigs. He was so miserable and hungry that he wanted to eat
the pigs' food."

![](/courses/JUSTINTIMEMODULEMETAPHORS/document/images/6-OBS-35.png){.img-responsive
width="1273" height="707"}

"Finally, the younger son said to himself, 'What am I doing? All my
father's servants have plenty to eat, and yet here I am starving. I will
go back to my father and ask to be one of his servants.'"

![](/courses/JUSTINTIMEMODULEMETAPHORS/document/images/7-OBS-35.png){.img-responsive
width="1285" height="746"}

"So the younger son started back towards his father's home. When he was
still far away, his father saw him and felt compassion for him. He ran
to his son and hugged him and kissed him."

![](/courses/JUSTINTIMEMODULEMETAPHORS/document/images/8-OBS-35.png){.img-responsive
width="1241" height="716"}

"The son said, 'Father, I have sinned against God and against you. I am
not worthy to be your son.'"

![](/courses/JUSTINTIMEMODULEMETAPHORS/document/images/9-OBS-35.png){.img-responsive
width="1242" height="713"}

"But his father told one of his servants, 'Go quickly and bring the best
clothes and put them on my son! Put a ring on his finger and put sandals
on his feet. Then kill the best calf so we can have a feast and
celebrate, because my son was dead, but now he is alive! He was lost,
but now we have found him!'"

![](/courses/JUSTINTIMEMODULEMETAPHORS/document/images/10-OBS-35.png){.img-responsive}

"So the people began to celebrate. Before long, the older son came home
from working in the field. He heard the music and dancing and wondered
what was happening."

![](/courses/JUSTINTIMEMODULEMETAPHORS/document/images/11-OBS-35.png){.img-responsive
width="1271" height="710"}

"When the older son found out that they were celebrating because his
brother had come home, he was very angry and would not go into the
house. His father came out and begged him to come and celebrate with
them, but he refused."

![](/courses/JUSTINTIMEMODULEMETAPHORS/document/images/12-OBS-35.png){.img-responsive}

"The older son said to his father, 'All these years I have worked
faithfully for you! I never disobeyed you, and still you did not give me
even one small goat so I could celebrate with my friends. But this son
of yours has wasted your money doing sinful things. When he came home,
you killed the best calf to celebrate!'"

![](/courses/JUSTINTIMEMODULEMETAPHORS/document/images/13-OBS-35.png){.img-responsive
width="1273" height="715"}

"The father answered, 'My son, you are always with me, and everything I
have is yours. But it is right for us to celebrate because your brother
was dead, but now is alive. He was lost, but now we have found him!'"

*A Bible story from: Luke 15*

::: {.alert .alert-warning}
After you have read this story several times, **click
![](/courses/JUSTINTIMEMODULEMETAPHORS/document/images/forward-arrow-icon.png){width="40"
height="40"}** to navigate to the next activity. 
:::
