# Learn the reason languages have metaphor!

## Scroll to read the purpose of metaphor.

Metaphor is a tool for speakers or writers to convey meaning to
their audiences. You learned about the 5 Purpose for Using Metaphor in
Learning Path 1, but let\'s review this idea again. Knowing the purposes
for metaphors helps us explain the point of comparison in metaphors.
Read the five different purposes below:

![](/courses/JUSTINTIMEMODULEMETAPHORS/document/images/Purpose-of-Metaphor_1.png){.img-responsive
width="1024" height="768"}

 

source [translationAcademy](https://door43.org/u/unfoldingWord/en_ta/master/03-translate.html#figs-metaphor)

Let\'s review the examples of metaphor that we learned about in Learning
Path 2. We can identify the author or speaker\'s purpose(s). 

![](/courses/JUSTINTIMEMODULEMETAPHORS/document/images/Purpose-Example-Love-Rose_2.png){.img-responsive
width="1024" height="768"}

 

As this metaphor is a statement about \"the girl I love,\" the purpose
is vividly connected to *feeling*. Through the comparison, the speaker
communicates the depth of beauty of the woman he loves. 

![](/courses/JUSTINTIMEMODULEMETAPHORS/document/images/Purpose-Example-Bread-of-Life_2.png){.img-responsive
width="1024" height="768"}

This metaphor helps the audience remember and understand Jesus\'
teaching through using the comparison of bread and life. Jesus gives
eternal life to those who
believe.![](/courses/JUSTINTIMEMODULEMETAPHORS/document/images/Purpose-Example-That-Fox_2.png){.img-responsive
width="1024" height="768"}

 

Jesus wants his audience to know that Herod is **not **an admirable
leader. The comparison of fox and King Herod expresses the feelings that
Jesus has. He does not admire King
Herod. ![](/courses/JUSTINTIMEMODULEMETAPHORS/document/images/Purpose-Example-Sun-Wings_2.png){.img-responsive
width="1024" height="768"}

 

These deeply poetic metaphors help the audience understand and remember
the character of God. The comparisons of sun  and wings to salvation and
healing tells a truth that God\'s people should remember: Salvation is
complete and brings spiritual healing.

A metaphor might have many purposes for communicating meaning. The
purposes help explain the point of comparison between the topic and
image. A translator should think of these purposes, when they find a
metaphor in the Bible. When they think about the purpose, that will help
them decide the best way to translate the metaphor. 

::: {.alert .alert-warning}
**Click** ![](/courses/JUSTINTIMEMODULEMETAPHORS/document/images/forward-arrow-icon.png){width="40"
height="40"}to navigate to the next page.
:::
