## First, we have to know what a metaphor is.

### What is a metaphor?

#### A metaphor is a figure of *comparison.* A person uses this figure of speech by comparing one topic to another topic, so that people think about how those topics are similar.

A metaphor is a figure of speech. A person uses a metaphor, so that he
can describe a deeper idea. 

For example, a person can say \"I love a beautiful girl.\" This is a
literal statement. However, the speaker wants to express how deeply he
loves the woman! He wants to express how beautiful she is! So he says
\"The girl I love is a red rose.\"

![](/courses/JUSTINTIMEMODULEMETAPHORS/document/images/Comparison-love.png){.img-responsive
width="1024" height="768"}

Another example of metaphor expresses a common English proverb: 

![](/courses/JUSTINTIMEMODULEMETAPHORS/document/images/Comparison-laughter.jpg){.img-responsive
width="1024" height="768"}

The person thinks \"How are laughter and medicine similar? Oh! They both
make us feel better.\" 

Children are wonderful, and sometimes they are difficult to understand.
Parents often need a way to ask for advice, so they might use a
comparison to express the problem.

![](/courses/JUSTINTIMEMODULEMETAPHORS/document/images/Comparison-child_1.png){.img-responsive
width="1024" height="768"}

The person asks himself \"How are the child and the owl similar? They
are both awake during the night!\" 

A person\'s journey through life is surprising. He might think he knows
exactly what will happen to him, but so many choices and events cause
him to feel confused sometimes. A metaphor can help him communicate how
surprising life can be. 

![](/courses/JUSTINTIMEMODULEMETAPHORS/document/images/Comparison-maze.png){.img-responsive
width="1024" height="768"}

A metaphor helps a person communicate comparison between two things, so
that the comparison invites the listener to think more deeply about the
meaning. 

The Bible often uses metaphors to invite the listener to think more
deeply about the meaning.

![](/courses/JUSTINTIMEMODULEMETAPHORS/document/images/Comparison-shepherd.png){.img-responsive
width="1024" height="768"}

The person asks himself \"How are the Lord and a shepherd similar? Oh!
They both provide for and protect those that they watch over.\"

Jesus described himself as \"the bread of life.\"

![](/courses/JUSTINTIMEMODULEMETAPHORS/document/images/Comparison-bread.png){.img-responsive
width="1024" height="768"}The person asks himself \"How is Jesus like
bread? Bread gives my body strength to live. Jesus must give my whole
being strength to live!\"

Click the link to read translationAcademy\'s definition of
[metaphor](https://door43.org/u/unfoldingWord/en_ta/master/03-translate.html#figs-metaphor).

::: {.alert .alert-warning}
Click ![](/courses/JUSTINTIMEMODULEMETAPHORS/document/images/forward-arrow-icon.png){width="40"
height="40"} to navigate to the next page.
:::
